[MUSIC]
In this video we're giving our player
some damage so that it can be hit, and
destroyed, and killed.
Blump!
And we also are going to introduce a whole
bunch of really weird bugs that we're
going to defer until the next video.
But for now, we're getting our
player with a health system and
with the ability to be destroyed.
Before we get stuck into the code,
there's one thing I wanna do.
I'm really not happy with the darkness of
my enemy laser, I can't really see it as
I'm playing the game, so
I'm gonna do something very quickly here.
Go into my Assets folder, into PNGs,
look for Lasers,
see what else we've got in there.
And it looks like we've got a red with
white on the inside, so I'm gonna drag
that into my Sprites folder to say, yep,
this is one of the sprites I am using.
Now, back to my prefabs.
Click on the enemy laser, and the enemy
laser I will change under Sprite Renderer,
click on the selector next to my sprite,
and
choose the laserRed04
that I had just selected.
And then right-click out,
don't need to do a refresh,
it refreshed itself or re-import.
And then,
to give it a little bit more flair,
I'm just going to create a little
bit of yellowy sort of color,
maybe a little bit orangey,
just to have it not quite so white.
Click on Play, just make sure that
stands out and pops a little bit better.
Might want to make it a bit
larger as well, then not too bad.
I think perhaps I will make it a bit
larger just by going into my sprite,
finding the sprite here, and
then instead of pixels per unit 100
I'm gonna say pixels per unit 50,
which should double it in size.
Click on Apply, and
then click on Play, see how that goes.
And it will fall from the sky
much bigger than it was.
Okay, so
some nice big lasers that are menacing for
us to avoid grom our enemies,
they're nearly bigger than the enemies.
That's fine for now, I just wanted to
have that really, really clear, so
that you can see it on your screen while
I'm going through this on my screen.
Okay, now let's jump over
into our Player.cs script.
I wanna show you something
briefly in here,
as a way to organize our variables
that we have within our Player script.
So if we clicked on Player in your
hierarchy, you can see that under Player
script we've got the variable that
we've exposed using serialized fields,
let's organize them a more
bit better by using Header.
So the Header attribute,
if we give ourselves a new line of having
our variables, open our square bracket,
type in Header with a capital H,
open parentheses and
then quotations, and we will say,
this is the Player Movement,
I believe is at the top here.
Yep, moveSpeed and padding core.
And then above laserPrefab I'm gonna
create a Header, again square brackets,
Header, parenthesis, quotation marks,
we'll call this Projectile.
Click on Save.
Back over into Unity, and
you can see, once that compiles and
does the magic that it needs to do, that
over here under our Player (Script) we'll
have a header or heading,
which is Player Movement.
It has the two variables, and
then Projectile and the variables there.
So this is pretty handy when you
get a lot of things going on,
you can organize them and
group them a bit better.
So we will add one new thing under Player
Movement, and already Player Movement's
not correct, cuz I'm about to add health,
so we'll just call it Player, so
it's Player versus Projectile
is our distinction there.
I will SerializedField,
this will be our integer, and we'll call
this health, so the player has health.
We'll start that off at 200, semicolon.
Now what we need to do is have a way for
the player to collide with things, and
a way for the player to take damage and
potentially be destroyed.
And this is where I've got a challenge for
you, give the player life and death,
use our enemy code as inspiration.
In fact you can, okay just between you and
me, you can copy and
paste the exact same code, but
if you wanted to type it out that is even
cooler to show that you
remember how we do it.
So check for collision, process the hit so
that health is reduced
by the damage amount.
Once health is below zero
destroy the Player, and
when you're testing this don't
forget to add all the colliders and
triggers In all of the places that you
need to add colliders and triggers.
So there's your challenge, take that on,
see if you can get to the point where
the player can be shot and destroyed.
Okay, so over into my Enemy.cs script
I find my OnTriggerEnter2D and
my ProcessHit.
Highlight all of those, copy,
back over into Player, and
underneath Update I'm gonna give myself
a little bit of space and paste those in.
Now, this is gonna be exactly the same,
and part of your brain should be saying,
hang on a minute, why are we just
pasting the same code twice?
Shouldn't we create it once, and
then apply it as two components?
We could do that, I'm not gonna do that at
the moment, cuz I'm not exactly sure how
things are going to change for
the player vs the enemy when we do all
the different things that need to happen
when the player gets to zero health, for
example loading new scenes or
triggering different effects.
But because these are the same, we could
have a health component that sits on both
the enemy and the player, and then there's
just one block of code to maintain instead
of having two very,
very similar blocks of code in two places.
But for now, we'll do it this way.
We've got our OnTriggerEnter2D with our
DamageDealer component and ProcessingHit.
Health is gonna be minus the
damageDealer.GetDamage(), which is cool.
And then if the health gets to 0,
then Destroy the gameObject.
Let's save that.
I'll go back over into Unity, and
then do the other couple of
things that we haven't done yet.
I'm gonna click on Player,
zoom in a little bit, so
I can see it nice and big on my screen.
And then Add Component, the component
I'll add is a Collider, let's see.
I will add a Polygon Collider 2D.
So we've been through that process, it's
a little bit messy when it goes on this.
It's probably good enough to be honest,
but I'm gonna do a little bit of editing.
Click on Edit Collider, grab the points,
move them into the general
area where the player is.
As I've said before,
I like to do a little bit on the inside
rather than a little bit on the outside.
I think players don't mind when they get
away with something, as opposed to when
they feel a little bit cheated, so getting
away with a close contact is better.
Just moving these points around,
this is just left mouse button,
grabbing on the points.
You can see it snaps when it gets
pretty close, moving the points around.
It doesn’t need to be 1,000% precise,
but we get a pretty good,
so that we know that the player is
reasonably, accurately represented.
Okay, that’s pretty good, remember
to apply that back to the prefab so
that it is on our prefab, and we can use
that in any other scene that we have.
Now under Prefabs I'm
gonna find my enemy laser.
The enemy laser also needs
some sort of collision, and
this one I will use a Capture Collider 2D,
that worked pretty well when we were doing
the play laser, so
I think that'll work well again.
I'll just drop that into scene to check
that it's okay, yep, looks pretty good.
Okay, and the last thing I'll do while
clicking on the enemy laser prefab under
the capture collider is to say Is Trigger,
and to check that so we do have a trigger.
Okay, let's save,
see what we've got in terms of
bullets being able to hurt the player.
I guess they're laser beams, aren't they?
They're laser projectiles.
So the player currently has,
I'll click on Player so
we can see the player's health where
it's healthy, it's just there.
And boink, there we go,
the player got seriously destroyed.
Now, there's a couple of things, [LAUGH]
there's a whole lot of nonsense going on
here at the moment, so that's gonna be
very excellent for upcoming videos.
I just want to highlight to you,
you can see that the enemies
are destroying themselves,
the player got destroyed after just one
hit, there's a lot of crazy going on here.
But as a first step, we've got our
player to the point where it can
receive damage and it can be destroyed.
So great work, well done, and I'll see
you in the next video where we'll tidy
up [LAUGH] some of this weirdness
that's taking place in our game.